Resources/doc/index.rst, before:

Provides messenging features for your Symfony2 application.

The persistence is storage agnostic. Any backend may be implemented: Doctrine, Propel, etc.
Presently, only the MongoDB implementation is complete.

MessageBundle supports threads, spam detection, soft deletion and messenging permissions.

MessageBundle requires FOSUserBundle by default, as `NewThreadMessageFormType`
depends on the `fos_user_username` field type for entering a new message
recipient. This dependency is optional if you implement a custom form type for
new messages and specify your class in the `new_thread_form.type` config option.

Installation
============

Add MessageBundle to your src/ dir
-------------------------------------

::

    $ git submodule add git://github.com/Ornicar/MessageBundle.git vendor/bundles/Ornicar/MessageBundle

Add the Ornicar namespace to your autoloader
----------------------------------------

::

    // app/autoload.php

    $loader->registerNamespaces(array(
        'Ornicar' => __DIR__.'/../vendor/bundles',
        // your other namespaces
    );

Add MessageBundle to your application kernel
-----------------------------------------

::

    // app/AppKernel.php

    public function registerBundles()
    {
        return array(
            // ...
            new Ornicar\MessageBundle\OrnicarMessageBundle(),
            // ...
        );
    }

Configure your project
----------------------

You have to include the MessageBundle in your Doctrine mapping configuration,
along with the bundle containing your custom Thread and Message classes::

    # app/config/config.yml

    doctrine_mongo_db:
        document_managers:
            default:
                mappings:
                    OrnicarMessageBundle: ~
                    # your other bundles

The above example assumes a MongoDB configuration, but the `mappings` configuration
block would be the same for ORM.

Choose your user
----------------

The message senders and recipients are called *participants* of the thread.
MessageBundle will only refer to them using the `ParticipantInterface`.
This allows you to use any user class. Just make it implement this interface.

For exemple, if your user class is ``Acme\UserBundle\Document\User``::

    // src/Acme/UserBundle/Document/User.php

    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Model\ParticipantInterface;

    /**
     * @MongoDB\Document
     */
    class User implements ParticipantInterface
    {
        // your code here
    }

If you need a bundle providing a base user, see http://github.com/FriendsOfSymfony/FOSUserBundle

Creating concrete model classes
-------------------------------

MongoDB
~~~~~~~

The MongoDB implementation does not provide concrete models. You must create
Thread and Message classes in your application.

Thread class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Document/Thread.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Document;

    use Doctrine\ODM\MongoDB\Mapping\Annotations as MongoDB;
    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Document\Thread as BaseThread;

    /**
     * @MongoDB\Document
     */
    class Thread extends BaseThread
    {
        /**
         * @MongoDB\Id
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\ReferenceMany(targetDocument="Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Message")
         */
        protected $messages;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\EmbedMany(targetDocument="Acme\MessageBundle\Document\ThreadMetadata")
         */
        protected $metadata;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\ReferenceMany(targetDocument="Acme\UserBundle\Document\User")
         */
        protected $participants;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\ReferenceOne(targetDocument="Acme\UserBundle\Document\User")
         */
        protected $createdBy;
    }

Message class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Document/Message.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Document;

    use Doctrine\ODM\MongoDB\Mapping\Annotations as MongoDB;
    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Document\Message as BaseMessage;

    /**
     * @MongoDB\Document
     */
    class Message extends BaseMessage
    {
        /**
         * @MongoDB\Id
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\EmbedMany(targetDocument="Acme\MessageBundle\Document\MessageMetadata")
         */
        protected $metadata;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\ReferenceOne(targetDocument="Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Thread")
         */
        protected $thread;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\ReferenceOne(targetDocument="Acme\UserBundle\Document\User")
         */
        protected $sender;
    }

Configure your application::

    # app/config/config.yml

    ornicar_message:
        db_driver: mongodb
        thread_class: Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Thread
        message_class: Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Message

ORM
~~~

The ORM implementation does not provide concrete models. You must create Message
MessageMetadata, Thread and ThreadMetadata classes in your application::

Message class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Entity/Message.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Entity;

    use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Entity\Message as BaseMessage;

    /**
     * @ORM\Entity
     */
    class Message extends BaseMessage
    {
        /**
         * @ORM\Id
         * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
         * @ORM\generatedValue(strategy="AUTO")
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Thread")
         * @ORM\JoinColumn(name="thread_id", referencedColumnName="id")
         */
        protected $thread;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\UserBundle\Entity\User")
         * @ORM\JoinColumn(name="user_id", referencedColumnName="id")
         */
        protected $sender;

        /**
         * @ORM\OneToMany(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\MessageMetadata", mappedBy="message", cascade={"all"})
         */
        protected $metadata;
    }

MessageMetadata class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Entity/MessageMetadata.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Entity;

    use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Entity\MessageMetadata as BaseMessageMetadata;

    /**
     * @ORM\Entity
     * @ORM\Table(name="message_message_metadata")
     */
    class MessageMetadata extends BaseMessageMetadata
    {
        /**
         * @ORM\Id
         * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
         * @ORM\generatedValue(strategy="AUTO")
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Message", inversedBy="metadata")
         */
        protected $message;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\UserBundle\Entity\User")
         */
        protected $participant;
    }

Thread class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Entity/Thread.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Entity;

    use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Entity\Thread as BaseThread;

    /**
     * @ORM\Entity
     * @ORM\Table(name="message_thread")
     */
    class Thread extends BaseThread
    {
        /**
         * @ORM\Id
         * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
         * @ORM\generatedValue(strategy="AUTO")
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\UserBundle\Entity\User")
         */
        protected $createdBy;

        /**
         * @ORM\OneToMany(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Message", mappedBy="thread")
         */
        protected $messages;

        /**
         * @ORM\OneToMany(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\ThreadMetadata", mappedBy="thread", cascade={"all"})
         */
        protected $metadata;

        public function __construct()
        {
            parent::__construct();

            $this->messages = new \Doctrine\Common\Collections\ArrayCollection();
        }
    }

ThreadMetadata class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Entity/ThreadMetadata.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Entity;

    use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Entity\ThreadMetadata as BaseThreadMetadata;

    /**
     * @ORM\Entity
     * @ORM\Table(name="message_thread_metadata")
     */
    class ThreadMetadata extends BaseThreadMetadata
    {
        /**
         * @ORM\Id
         * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
         * @ORM\generatedValue(strategy="AUTO")
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Thread", inversedBy="metadata")
         */
        protected $thread;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\UserBundle\Entity\User")
         */
        protected $participant;

    }

Configure your application::

    # app/config/config.yml

    ornicar_message:
        db_driver: orm
        thread_class: Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Thread
        message_class: Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Message


Register routing
----------------

You will probably want to include the built-in routes.

In YAML::

    # app/config/routing.yml

    ornicar_message:
        resource: "@OrnicarMessageBundle/Resources/config/routing.xml"

Or if you prefer XML::

    # app/config/routing.xml

    <import resource="@OrnicarMessageBundle/Resources/config/routing.xml"/>

Basic Usage
===========

Have a look to the default controller to learn how to use the messenging services::

    Controller\MessageController.php

Get user threads
----------------

Get the threads in the inbox of the authenticated user::

    $provider = $container->get('ornicar_message.provider');

    $threads = $provider->getInboxThreads();

And the threads in the sentbox::

    $threads = $provider->getSentThreads();

To get a single thread, check it belongs to the authenticated user and mark it as read::

    $thread = $provider->getThread($threadId);

Manipulate threads
------------------

See ``Ornicar\\MessageBundle\\Model\\ThreadInterface`` for the complete list of available methods::

    // Print the thread subject
    echo $thread->getSubject();

    // Get the tread participants
    $participants = $thread->getParticipants();

    // Know if this participant has read this thread
    if ($thread->isReadByParticipant($participant))

    // Know if this participant has deleted this thread
    if ($thread->isDeletedByParticipant($participant))


Manipulate messages
-------------------

See ``Ornicar\\MessageBundle\\Model\\MessageInterface`` for the complete list of available methods::

    // Print the message body
    echo $message->getBody();

    // Get the message sender participant
    $sender = $message->getSender();

    // Get the message thread
    $thread = $message->getThread();

    // Know if this participant has read this message
    if ($message->isReadByParticipant($participant))

Compose a message
--------------

Create a new message thread::

    $composer = $container->get('ornicar_message.composer');

    $message = $composer->newThread()
        ->setSender($jack)
        ->addRecipient($clyde)
        ->setSubject('Hi there')
        ->setBody('This is a test message')
        ->getMessage();

And to reply to this thread::

    $message = $composer->reply($thread)
        ->setSender($clyde)
        ->setBody('This is the answer to the test message')
        ->getMessage();

Note that when replying, we don't need to provide the subject nor the recipient.
Because they are the attributes of the thread, which already exists.

Send a message
--------------

Nothing's easier than sending the message you've just composed::

    $sender = $container->get('ornicar_message.sender');

    $sender->send($message);

Templating
==========

MessageBundle provides a few twig functions::

    {# template.html.twig #}

    {# Know if a message is read by the authenticated participant #}
    {% if not ornicar_message_is_read(message) %} This message is new! {% endif %}

    {# Know if a thread is read by the authenticated participant. Yes, it's the same function. #}
    {% if not ornicar_message_is_read(thread) %} This thread is new! {% endif %}

    {# Get the number of new threads for the authenticated participant #}
    You have {{ ornicar_message_nb_unread() }} new messages

Spam detection
==============

Using Akismet
-------------

Install AkismetBundle (http://github.com/ornicar/AkismetBundle).

Then, set the spam detector service accordingly::

    # app/config/config.yml

        ornicar_message:
            spam_detector: ornicar_message.akismet_spam_detector

Other strategy
--------------

You can use any spam dectetor service, including one of your own, provided the
class implements ``Ornicar\MessageBundle\SpamDetection\SpamDetectorInterface``.

Messenging permissions
======================

You can change the security logic by replacing the ``authorizer`` service::

    # app/config/config.yml

        ornicar_message:
            authorizer: acme_message.authorizer

Your class must implement ``Ornicar\MessageBundle\Security\AuthorizerInterface``::

    interface AuthorizerInterface
    {
        /**
        * Tells if the current user is allowed
        * to see this thread
        *
        * @param ThreadInterface $thread
        * @return boolean
        */
        function canSeeThread(ThreadInterface $thread);

        /**
        * Tells if the current participant is allowed
        * to delete this thread
        *
        * @param ThreadInterface $thread
        * @return boolean
        */
        function canDeleteThread(ThreadInterface $thread);

        /**
        * Tells if the current participant is allowed
        * to send a message to this other participant
        *
        * $param ParticipantInterface $participant the one we want to send a message to
        * @return boolean
        */
        function canMessageParticipant(ParticipantInterface $participant);
    }

You can tell whether the user can see or delete a thread, and if he can send a new message to another user.
See the default implementation in ``Ornicar\MessageBundle\Security\Authorizer``.


Listening to events
===================

This bundles dispatches event when notable actions are performed.

See ``Ornicar\MessageBundle\Event\OrnicarMessageEvents`` for a documented
list of the available events.

Configuration
=============

All configuration options are listed below::

    # app/config/config.yml

    ornicar_message
        db_driver:              mongodb
        thread_class:           Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Thread
        message_class:          Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Message
        message_manager:        ornicar_message.message_manager         # See ModelManager\MessageManagerInterface
        thread_manager:         ornicar_message.thread_manager          # See ModelManager\ThreadManagerInterface
        sender:                 ornicar_message.sender                  # See Sender\SenderInterface
        composer:               ornicar_message.composer                # See Composer\ComposerInterface
        provider:               ornicar_message.provider                # See Provider\ProviderInterface
        participant_provider:   ornicar_message.participant_provider    # See Security\ParticipantProviderInterface
        authorizer:             ornicar_message.authorizer              # See Security\AuthorizerInterface
        message_reader:         ornicar_message.message_reader          # See Reader\ReaderInterface
        thread_reader:          ornicar_message.thread_reader           # See Reader\ReaderInterface
        deleter:                ornicar_message.deleter                 # See Deleter\DeleterInterface
        spam_detector:          ornicar_message.noop_spam_detector      # See SpamDetection\SpamDetectorInterface
        twig_extension:         ornicar_message.twig_extension          # See Twig\Extension\MessageExtension
        search:
            finder:             ornicar_message.search_finder           # See Finder\FinderInterface
            query_factory:      ornicar_message.search_query_factory    # See Finder\QueryFactoryInterface
            query_parameter:    'q'                                     # Request query parameter containing the term
        new_thread_form:
            factory:            ornicar_message.new_thread_form.factory # See FormFactory\NewThreadMessageFormFactory
            type:               ornicar_message.new_thread_form.type    # See FormType\NewThreadMessageFormType
            handler:            ornicar_message.new_thread_form.handler # See FormHandler\NewThreadMessageFormHandler
            name:               message
        reply_form:
            factory:            ornicar_message.reply_form.factory      # See FormFactory\ReplyMessageFormFactory
            type:               ornicar_message.reply_form.type         # See FormType\ReplyMessageFormType
            handler:            ornicar_message.reply_form.handler      # See FormHandler\ReplyMessageFormHandler
            name:               message

Implement a new persistence backend
===================================

I need your help for the ORM - and more - implementations.

Implementation
--------------

To provide a new backend implementation, you must implement these interfaces:

- ``Model/ThreadInterface.php``
- ``Model/MessageInterface.php``
- ``ModelManager/ThreadManagerInterface.php``
- ``ModelManager/MessageManagerInterface.php``

MongoDB implementation examples:

- ``Document/Thread.php``
- ``Document/Message.php``
- ``DocumentManager/ThreadManager.php``
- ``DocumentManager/MessageManager.php``

Note that the MongoDB manager classes only contain MongoDB-specific logic.
Backend-agnostic logic lives within the abstract managers.


Mapping
-------

You may also need to define mappings.

MongoDB mapping examples:

- ``src/Ornicar/MessageBundle/Resources/config/doctrine/thread.mongodb.xml``
- ``src/Ornicar/MessageBundle/Resources/config/doctrine/message.mongodb.xml``

Commit message:

Update readme/docs with MongoDB migration notes (see: #32)

Resources/doc/index.rst, after:

Provides messenging features for your Symfony2 application.

The persistence is storage agnostic. Any backend may be implemented: Doctrine, Propel, etc.
Presently, only the MongoDB implementation is complete.

MessageBundle supports threads, spam detection, soft deletion and messenging permissions.

MessageBundle requires FOSUserBundle by default, as `NewThreadMessageFormType`
depends on the `fos_user_username` field type for entering a new message
recipient. This dependency is optional if you implement a custom form type for
new messages and specify your class in the `new_thread_form.type` config option.

**Note:** PR #32 introduced significant schema changes for the MongoDB model
layer. The ``ornicar:message:mongodb:migrate:metadata`` console command may be
used to migrate your existing schema. Please refer to the command's help message
for additional information.

Installation
============

Add MessageBundle to your src/ dir
-------------------------------------

::

    $ git submodule add git://github.com/Ornicar/MessageBundle.git vendor/bundles/Ornicar/MessageBundle

Add the Ornicar namespace to your autoloader
----------------------------------------

::

    // app/autoload.php

    $loader->registerNamespaces(array(
        'Ornicar' => __DIR__.'/../vendor/bundles',
        // your other namespaces
    );

Add MessageBundle to your application kernel
-----------------------------------------

::

    // app/AppKernel.php

    public function registerBundles()
    {
        return array(
            // ...
            new Ornicar\MessageBundle\OrnicarMessageBundle(),
            // ...
        );
    }

Configure your project
----------------------

You have to include the MessageBundle in your Doctrine mapping configuration,
along with the bundle containing your custom Thread and Message classes::

    # app/config/config.yml

    doctrine_mongo_db:
        document_managers:
            default:
                mappings:
                    OrnicarMessageBundle: ~
                    # your other bundles

The above example assumes a MongoDB configuration, but the `mappings` configuration
block would be the same for ORM.

Choose your user
----------------

The message senders and recipients are called *participants* of the thread.
MessageBundle will only refer to them using the `ParticipantInterface`.
This allows you to use any user class. Just make it implement this interface.

For exemple, if your user class is ``Acme\UserBundle\Document\User``::

    // src/Acme/UserBundle/Document/User.php

    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Model\ParticipantInterface;

    /**
     * @MongoDB\Document
     */
    class User implements ParticipantInterface
    {
        // your code here
    }

If you need a bundle providing a base user, see http://github.com/FriendsOfSymfony/FOSUserBundle

Creating concrete model classes
-------------------------------

MongoDB
~~~~~~~

The MongoDB implementation does not provide concrete models. You must create
Thread and Message classes in your application.

Thread class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Document/Thread.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Document;

    use Doctrine\ODM\MongoDB\Mapping\Annotations as MongoDB;
    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Document\Thread as BaseThread;

    /**
     * @MongoDB\Document
     */
    class Thread extends BaseThread
    {
        /**
         * @MongoDB\Id
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\ReferenceMany(targetDocument="Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Message")
         */
        protected $messages;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\EmbedMany(targetDocument="Acme\MessageBundle\Document\ThreadMetadata")
         */
        protected $metadata;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\ReferenceMany(targetDocument="Acme\UserBundle\Document\User")
         */
        protected $participants;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\ReferenceOne(targetDocument="Acme\UserBundle\Document\User")
         */
        protected $createdBy;
    }

Message class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Document/Message.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Document;

    use Doctrine\ODM\MongoDB\Mapping\Annotations as MongoDB;
    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Document\Message as BaseMessage;

    /**
     * @MongoDB\Document
     */
    class Message extends BaseMessage
    {
        /**
         * @MongoDB\Id
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\EmbedMany(targetDocument="Acme\MessageBundle\Document\MessageMetadata")
         */
        protected $metadata;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\ReferenceOne(targetDocument="Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Thread")
         */
        protected $thread;

        /**
         * @MongoDB\ReferenceOne(targetDocument="Acme\UserBundle\Document\User")
         */
        protected $sender;
    }

Configure your application::

    # app/config/config.yml

    ornicar_message:
        db_driver: mongodb
        thread_class: Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Thread
        message_class: Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Message

ORM
~~~

The ORM implementation does not provide concrete models. You must create Message
MessageMetadata, Thread and ThreadMetadata classes in your application::

Message class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Entity/Message.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Entity;

    use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Entity\Message as BaseMessage;

    /**
     * @ORM\Entity
     */
    class Message extends BaseMessage
    {
        /**
         * @ORM\Id
         * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
         * @ORM\generatedValue(strategy="AUTO")
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Thread")
         * @ORM\JoinColumn(name="thread_id", referencedColumnName="id")
         */
        protected $thread;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\UserBundle\Entity\User")
         * @ORM\JoinColumn(name="user_id", referencedColumnName="id")
         */
        protected $sender;

        /**
         * @ORM\OneToMany(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\MessageMetadata", mappedBy="message", cascade={"all"})
         */
        protected $metadata;
    }

MessageMetadata class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Entity/MessageMetadata.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Entity;

    use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Entity\MessageMetadata as BaseMessageMetadata;

    /**
     * @ORM\Entity
     * @ORM\Table(name="message_message_metadata")
     */
    class MessageMetadata extends BaseMessageMetadata
    {
        /**
         * @ORM\Id
         * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
         * @ORM\generatedValue(strategy="AUTO")
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Message", inversedBy="metadata")
         */
        protected $message;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\UserBundle\Entity\User")
         */
        protected $participant;
    }

Thread class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Entity/Thread.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Entity;

    use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Entity\Thread as BaseThread;

    /**
     * @ORM\Entity
     * @ORM\Table(name="message_thread")
     */
    class Thread extends BaseThread
    {
        /**
         * @ORM\Id
         * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
         * @ORM\generatedValue(strategy="AUTO")
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\UserBundle\Entity\User")
         */
        protected $createdBy;

        /**
         * @ORM\OneToMany(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Message", mappedBy="thread")
         */
        protected $messages;

        /**
         * @ORM\OneToMany(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\ThreadMetadata", mappedBy="thread", cascade={"all"})
         */
        protected $metadata;

        public function __construct()
        {
            parent::__construct();

            $this->messages = new \Doctrine\Common\Collections\ArrayCollection();
        }
    }

ThreadMetadata class::

    // src/Acme/MessageBundle/Entity/ThreadMetadata.php

    namespace Acme\MessageBundle\Entity;

    use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

    use Ornicar\MessageBundle\Entity\ThreadMetadata as BaseThreadMetadata;

    /**
     * @ORM\Entity
     * @ORM\Table(name="message_thread_metadata")
     */
    class ThreadMetadata extends BaseThreadMetadata
    {
        /**
         * @ORM\Id
         * @ORM\Column(type="integer")
         * @ORM\generatedValue(strategy="AUTO")
         */
        protected $id;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Thread", inversedBy="metadata")
         */
        protected $thread;

        /**
         * @ORM\ManyToOne(targetEntity="Acme\UserBundle\Entity\User")
         */
        protected $participant;

    }

Configure your application::

    # app/config/config.yml

    ornicar_message:
        db_driver: orm
        thread_class: Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Thread
        message_class: Acme\MessageBundle\Entity\Message


Register routing
----------------

You will probably want to include the built-in routes.

In YAML::

    # app/config/routing.yml

    ornicar_message:
        resource: "@OrnicarMessageBundle/Resources/config/routing.xml"

Or if you prefer XML::

    # app/config/routing.xml

    <import resource="@OrnicarMessageBundle/Resources/config/routing.xml"/>

Basic Usage
===========

Have a look to the default controller to learn how to use the messenging services::

    Controller\MessageController.php

Get user threads
----------------

Get the threads in the inbox of the authenticated user::

    $provider = $container->get('ornicar_message.provider');

    $threads = $provider->getInboxThreads();

And the threads in the sentbox::

    $threads = $provider->getSentThreads();

To get a single thread, check it belongs to the authenticated user and mark it as read::

    $thread = $provider->getThread($threadId);

Manipulate threads
------------------

See ``Ornicar\\MessageBundle\\Model\\ThreadInterface`` for the complete list of available methods::

    // Print the thread subject
    echo $thread->getSubject();

    // Get the tread participants
    $participants = $thread->getParticipants();

    // Know if this participant has read this thread
    if ($thread->isReadByParticipant($participant))

    // Know if this participant has deleted this thread
    if ($thread->isDeletedByParticipant($participant))


Manipulate messages
-------------------

See ``Ornicar\\MessageBundle\\Model\\MessageInterface`` for the complete list of available methods::

    // Print the message body
    echo $message->getBody();

    // Get the message sender participant
    $sender = $message->getSender();

    // Get the message thread
    $thread = $message->getThread();

    // Know if this participant has read this message
    if ($message->isReadByParticipant($participant))

Compose a message
--------------

Create a new message thread::

    $composer = $container->get('ornicar_message.composer');

    $message = $composer->newThread()
        ->setSender($jack)
        ->addRecipient($clyde)
        ->setSubject('Hi there')
        ->setBody('This is a test message')
        ->getMessage();

And to reply to this thread::

    $message = $composer->reply($thread)
        ->setSender($clyde)
        ->setBody('This is the answer to the test message')
        ->getMessage();

Note that when replying, we don't need to provide the subject nor the recipient.
Because they are the attributes of the thread, which already exists.

Send a message
--------------

Nothing's easier than sending the message you've just composed::

    $sender = $container->get('ornicar_message.sender');

    $sender->send($message);

Templating
==========

MessageBundle provides a few twig functions::

    {# template.html.twig #}

    {# Know if a message is read by the authenticated participant #}
    {% if not ornicar_message_is_read(message) %} This message is new! {% endif %}

    {# Know if a thread is read by the authenticated participant. Yes, it's the same function. #}
    {% if not ornicar_message_is_read(thread) %} This thread is new! {% endif %}

    {# Get the number of new threads for the authenticated participant #}
    You have {{ ornicar_message_nb_unread() }} new messages

Spam detection
==============

Using Akismet
-------------

Install AkismetBundle (http://github.com/ornicar/AkismetBundle).

Then, set the spam detector service accordingly::

    # app/config/config.yml

        ornicar_message:
            spam_detector: ornicar_message.akismet_spam_detector

Other strategy
--------------

You can use any spam dectetor service, including one of your own, provided the
class implements ``Ornicar\MessageBundle\SpamDetection\SpamDetectorInterface``.

Messenging permissions
======================

You can change the security logic by replacing the ``authorizer`` service::

    # app/config/config.yml

        ornicar_message:
            authorizer: acme_message.authorizer

Your class must implement ``Ornicar\MessageBundle\Security\AuthorizerInterface``::

    interface AuthorizerInterface
    {
        /**
        * Tells if the current user is allowed
        * to see this thread
        *
        * @param ThreadInterface $thread
        * @return boolean
        */
        function canSeeThread(ThreadInterface $thread);

        /**
        * Tells if the current participant is allowed
        * to delete this thread
        *
        * @param ThreadInterface $thread
        * @return boolean
        */
        function canDeleteThread(ThreadInterface $thread);

        /**
        * Tells if the current participant is allowed
        * to send a message to this other participant
        *
        * $param ParticipantInterface $participant the one we want to send a message to
        * @return boolean
        */
        function canMessageParticipant(ParticipantInterface $participant);
    }

You can tell whether the user can see or delete a thread, and if he can send a new message to another user.
See the default implementation in ``Ornicar\MessageBundle\Security\Authorizer``.


Listening to events
===================

This bundles dispatches event when notable actions are performed.

See ``Ornicar\MessageBundle\Event\OrnicarMessageEvents`` for a documented
list of the available events.

Configuration
=============

All configuration options are listed below::

    # app/config/config.yml

    ornicar_message
        db_driver:              mongodb
        thread_class:           Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Thread
        message_class:          Acme\MessageBundle\Document\Message
        message_manager:        ornicar_message.message_manager         # See ModelManager\MessageManagerInterface
        thread_manager:         ornicar_message.thread_manager          # See ModelManager\ThreadManagerInterface
        sender:                 ornicar_message.sender                  # See Sender\SenderInterface
        composer:               ornicar_message.composer                # See Composer\ComposerInterface
        provider:               ornicar_message.provider                # See Provider\ProviderInterface
        participant_provider:   ornicar_message.participant_provider    # See Security\ParticipantProviderInterface
        authorizer:             ornicar_message.authorizer              # See Security\AuthorizerInterface
        message_reader:         ornicar_message.message_reader          # See Reader\ReaderInterface
        thread_reader:          ornicar_message.thread_reader           # See Reader\ReaderInterface
        deleter:                ornicar_message.deleter                 # See Deleter\DeleterInterface
        spam_detector:          ornicar_message.noop_spam_detector      # See SpamDetection\SpamDetectorInterface
        twig_extension:         ornicar_message.twig_extension          # See Twig\Extension\MessageExtension
        search:
            finder:             ornicar_message.search_finder           # See Finder\FinderInterface
            query_factory:      ornicar_message.search_query_factory    # See Finder\QueryFactoryInterface
            query_parameter:    'q'                                     # Request query parameter containing the term
        new_thread_form:
            factory:            ornicar_message.new_thread_form.factory # See FormFactory\NewThreadMessageFormFactory
            type:               ornicar_message.new_thread_form.type    # See FormType\NewThreadMessageFormType
            handler:            ornicar_message.new_thread_form.handler # See FormHandler\NewThreadMessageFormHandler
            name:               message
        reply_form:
            factory:            ornicar_message.reply_form.factory      # See FormFactory\ReplyMessageFormFactory
            type:               ornicar_message.reply_form.type         # See FormType\ReplyMessageFormType
            handler:            ornicar_message.reply_form.handler      # See FormHandler\ReplyMessageFormHandler
            name:               message

Implement a new persistence backend
===================================

I need your help for the ORM - and more - implementations.

Implementation
--------------

To provide a new backend implementation, you must implement these interfaces:

- ``Model/ThreadInterface.php``
- ``Model/MessageInterface.php``
- ``ModelManager/ThreadManagerInterface.php``
- ``ModelManager/MessageManagerInterface.php``

MongoDB implementation examples:

- ``Document/Thread.php``
- ``Document/Message.php``
- ``DocumentManager/ThreadManager.php``
- ``DocumentManager/MessageManager.php``

Note that the MongoDB manager classes only contain MongoDB-specific logic.
Backend-agnostic logic lives within the abstract managers.


Mapping
-------

You may also need to define mappings.

MongoDB mapping examples:

- ``src/Ornicar/MessageBundle/Resources/config/doctrine/thread.mongodb.xml``
- ``src/Ornicar/MessageBundle/Resources/config/doctrine/message.mongodb.xml``
